# Esports-Project
William: 
I was in charge of creating the dashboard for our presentation. To do this, I utilized html files and Flask to help display our results in an orderly way that makes it relatively easy to read. Most of what the dashboard consists of is images selected from our results to help tell the story of what we were trying to accomplish with our modeling and queries. 

Alex:  
I worked on predicting League of Legends matches using data from the regular season in 2023. Originally I attempted to predict world championship matches based on summer split data, but I ran into two problems. Firstly the summer split concluded some months before the world championships started with no reliable match data in between to track team practice, which caused a more inaccurate representation of how the teams performed during worlds. Secondly, because teams compete regionally during the regular season, there was no good way to handle regional skill differences, such as the number one team from region being knocked out by the number 3 team from a different region. Therefore I decided to restrict my analysis to the LCS (North American League) and to use the summer split to predict match probability for  the qualifiers for worlds that take place right after the regular season ends. This would keep a close time frame in between training matches and match predictions and would remove cross regional issues. I used the spring split as training data and joined teams on the matchID such that if the result was a win for team x, the result would be 1 and if the result was a win for team y, the result would be 0. I then averaged the data for each team's summer split performance, and set up a bracket that mirrored matches from both week 1 and week 6 (final week) of the qualifier tournament. Interestingly, althouth the model predicted 3/5 matches correctly from week 1 and 4/5 matches correctly from week 6, the teams that the model predicted to win in those incorrect matches either came out above their opponent in the final cumulative ranking or were only one slot away from their opponent in the ranking, showing that the match could have gone either way. This inconsistancy in the model is a result of LCS matches being best of 1 which creates a more variable tournament environment, as well as the nature of League of Legends matches being lengthy with much room for human error to skew data.

David:
  My main focus was to create a match predictor for upcoming Valorant matches. I did every in the files 'val_scrape_clean' and 'valorant_match_predict'. I started by scraping vlr.gg for specific tournaments in 2023 using BeautifulSoup. I scraped all the date into one csv, then segemented out the data that I needed to create my model. Additionally, I added the the map, winner, and score differential into the dataset for each match. To simplify the data, I averaged out the player stats for each match to represent their given team and used those stats as features for my model, with the target being win/loss. I then created a simple neural network to predict who would win or lose. Then I created a popout window to input specfiic matches I was interested in predicting. Overall with this model I acheived an accuracy of roughly 0.96 and can successfully predict on the overall outcome of the next current matches (If those teams are common in the current dataset). Currently tested on specific games from Red Bull Home Ground #4 (https://www.vlr.gg/event/matches/1752/red-bull-home-ground-4/?series_id=all)

  Though I did not include any optimization files, the optimizations came from adding dropout layers to my model and changing the test size from 0.2 to 0.3. These changes were due to the model getting an accuracy percentage of 1.00. For this kind of model I am looking for an accuracy of 0.95-0.98 due to the fact that I am missing certain outside variables that arent included in the dataset like gametime conditions or health of the given players.

Liam:
My role was to run some Spark Queries on the League of Legends Datasets we used (representing Team/Player Stats from 2014 - 2023) to get some preliminary glimpses at what info might be contained prior to running machine learning. The queries ran were fairly basic, cataloguing which teams had the highest average KDA and win rates, with averages across the entire 2014 - 2023 period and just the 2023 year being performed seperately
